# Chris Long

URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=82AcVqBfwtc
Uploaded:Jul 2, 2026
Title:How To Set Up The Screaming Frog MCP In Claude Desktop 

---

Okay, so really big news SEOs. Screaming Frog has launched an official MCP. It allows you to crawl plus analyze the data directly in the cloud platform. Super gamechanging for SEOs is now you don't have to integrate different platforms or export data or anything like that. Everything can be done directly in Claude. I am going to show you a quick video tutorial on how to set this up. It's actually very very simple. So, you'll go to the Screaming Frog documentation here. I'll link that in the comments below. Um, there's two different methods you can use. One that uses the command line um, and then one that actually uses the desktop interface. I'm going to show you how to use the command line one as it's just a little bit easier and more straightforward. I said an extension that plugs directly into Claude. So, you'll go into the Screaming Frog documentation. Click this download button right here to download the MCP extension. And then what you're going to do is you're going to open up the Claw desktop app. And then you're just going to go into your settings right here. And then from there, you're going to go into extensions. Now, I already have this configured, but you'll see this when the extension and configuration is complete. You'll then go into advanced settings, and then you'll go into install, install extension. You'll then find that extension file that you downloaded and then click and add it here. And then that is it. Once you have done that, you will be completely set up. So if you go back here, let's say I want to, you know, run a test here and then I'll go to a new chat and say crawlenly.com with the screamingfrogmc. It is then going to go and start to look for that configuration. It's going to say, hey, I'm going to look at across the different tooling here and then figure out which tool to actually use to start the crawl. Here you can see it actually found the extension that is going to kick off the process. So super easy to set up for SEOs. takes less than 2 minutes and you'll be able to get crawl data directly in claude. Very gamechanging for SEOs. So go and check it out. Claude or Claude MCP with Screaming Frog. Super super valuable.