# Chris Long

URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=YKpMbTPuAto
Uploaded: Apr 23, 2026
Title:Sales Calls MCPs For SEO & AI Search

---

Okay, so a really common piece of advice that we see around SEO and AI search nowadays is for people to utilize more sales data, really kind of mine the questions that customers are asking to identify content that you want to create, prompts that you want to track. Like it's really great advice and probably something that SEO should be doing for a long time. But kind of not super practical for a lot of teams. I think MCPs kind of open up the doors for SEOs in that way um cuz a lot of these sales and transcription tools have MCPs available that we're probably just not using, right? Um I use Fathom, so here's the Fathom MCP that I've connected with I'll show you an example of. Fellows is another really popular one, great company. They have an MCP, Firefly, same exact thing. Gong, a lot of enterprise companies use this. Uh they have a page run MCP, it's not clear um if they have a Claude integration. It doesn't look like it, but I would suspect they have one coming up. Um and you can use this to connect, you know, Claude code, your AI agent of choice, and really mine for data around this. Um like I said, I use Fathom, so I said, "Hey, do you have access to the Fathom MCP?" Yes, it does. It was able to get me call transcripts and analyze that. I said, "Hey, I'm looking for prompts to track around content ideas for my sales calls. Um give me the 10 most common questions and themes I get. Also exclude any names, companies from the output." It did that and then it came here and gave me the top questions and themes. People asking about AI search optimization visibility, how do I how do I attribute that, seeing traffic and ranking declines, bandwidth and team resources. It also did a little bit of analysis and said like, "Hey, emerging themes where people are shifting a little bit from SEO terminology to AI search visibility, interest in leveraging custom conversation data like Gong chatbots." So exactly like what we're doing right now. It also said, "Hey, drill down into the AI search visibility questions. What are the most common themes and questions there?" And it actually went and then gave like specific core questions, subtopics that I could then use to either prompt track around or integrate into my content plan. So, really cool, really powerful, a way that teams can actually use sales data to inform their SEO and AI search strategies using MCPs. If you're an SEO or AI search, I would recommend maybe buying your sales team lunch, trying to get access to some of their data. I think you're going to have a really good time using it and find a lot of really cool insights using MCPs that you might not have before.