# Chris Long

URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=OWUNU5Jtp2M
Uploaded:Apr 21, 2026
Title:Nectiv's Adaptive Workflows Framework

---

At Nectiv, our primary methodology is based on adaptive workflows. Adaptive workflows is an innovative new concept in SEO and generative engine optimization that allows for much more flexible engagements and a much higher likelihood of having success. Generally, in an SEO or GO engagement, you need a lot of different things in order to be successful. You might need content creation or search consulting or actual engineering implementation or even some month CRO. But the problem is is often times these are structured as different service scopes, which doesn't allow a ton of flexibility in terms of what the team can work on and how things are structured. However, with adaptive workflows, you have access to Nectiv's full discoverability service offerings on any given month. So, this is a visual that shows you a little bit more of how adaptive workflows works. Let's say you want a SEO consulting or technical SEO or engineering or content operations, adaptive workflows allows you to have access to any one of those service offerings at any given time that you want. So, that allows us to be a lot more proactive in the search strategies that we're recommending as we're not limited to a certain set of activities or scopes. Often times as SEO engagements kind of go on, they get a little bit more narrow in scope or we see the same things being done over and over. With adaptive workflows, you have access to all of the service offerings on any given month, so that gives you a lot more flexibility in what can be done. This shows you a sample 8-month plan. It shows you how exactly adaptive workflows might look. So, the first month might be our initial search sprints, strategy prioritization, and then strategy review and consulting. But then if we discover that hey, we need to create a lot of content to be successful, we start content creation the next month, on-page on-page enhancements, and then technical SEO. But then later in the strategy we might need to shift. We might need to say, "Hey, we want to start taking a look at generative engine optimization, different set of strategy." So month five we switch to generative engine optimization, maybe with reputation management. Maybe later you figure out the conversions are important for you. So then in month six we do a CRO audit followed by CRO testing in month seven. So with adaptive workflows you can see how it seamlessly allows you to switch between any of our service offerings. That way you have access to everything. You don't have to sign additional contracts, wait for additional team members to be staffed. Adaptive workflows allows you to give you access to the exact services that you need at the exact right time that you need them.