# Mike King

URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=JjPfPT37li0
Uploaded:Jun 12, 2026
Title:Your Inbox Might Be the Next AI Search Signal

---

Hey, everybody. Come on in. Come on in. The water is fine. The water is fine. We'll take a minute before we we get started. We will do our typical webinar housekeeping, but I am really excited for so many reasons for this webinar that we're hosting today. As everyone comes in, sound check, video check. So, let me know in the chat, can you all hear us? Where's everybody from? Actually, we can even start with a question about who here has used AI mode before. Who here has tried out and have you turned on Google personal intelligence? Okay. So, first off, waiting for like anybody to leave a comment in the chat. Can you guys hear us okay? Francine, I'm looking at you. >> [laughter] >> Making me nervous, folks. Okay, Liz let us know. Okay, we are loud and clear. We are live. There's no like weird technical glitch, which, you know, could happen at any given moment. All right, Kevin has turned on Google and ChatGPT. Cassie, okay. We're I guess there's a little delay. But welcome. Come on in. You guys are in for a treat. We're going to do some intros. Um as always, I want to let you know housekeeping-wise that after this this is being recorded. So, you know, if you're if you're watching this in the future and you weren't here in the moment, you missed out on a really great time, but uh yeah. Hi. For the rest of you, I will be sending this this webinar via video. Uh probably early tomorrow is the goal along with the deck as well. So, make sure I get you everything you need. Hopefully, we we have a lot of information. Hopefully, we'll have time for a Q&A at the end. That is the goal, fingers crossed, if I don't run my mouth and Tendo and Kate here don't don't run their mouths as well. Um >> [laughter] >> But in essence, we will get you all that stuff. So, let's dive in to this really special webinar. Your inbox might be the next AI search signal. So, let's let's do some intros. So, first off if you guys have never been to iPullRank, you don't know who we are. We are a AI search content strategy digital digital marketing agency. We help all different types of businesses, but primarily work with a lot of like Fortune 500s, mid-market brands who really need assistance in getting their AI search program activated and getting both content strategy and content marketing. We have a lot of content execution initiatives that we can support with. So, if you are interested, you know, shameless plug on our own webinar, but hit us up. You know, so do a do a discovery call, see if we are the right fit, especially if you are looking for someone to support what the heck you're doing with AI search at your business. So, intros. Me, I'm Garrett Sussman. I am the director of marketing at iPullRank. Just hit the 5-year anniversary. What do people stay at the same companies anymore for this long? I don't know, but I'm not going anywhere. Everyone's stuck with me. I have a beautiful wife and a little 4-year-old daughter who you'll find out her name later. A mini golden doodle named Lucy. I've lived in a bunch of different states. Currently in Virginia, from Jersey originally, was in California, Louisiana. Big Eagles Philadelphia sports fan, love psychology, behavioral economics books. And this is what we do at these webinars these days is I always want to provide context about who we are because context is really important of AI search. It's also the theme of a personalization webinar. Um and so let's dive in. Next up, I'd love to introduce my amazing co-host who have put this all together with me. Okay, Tando, aka Michael Tando, but we're going by Tando. Tando, who are you? >> [laughter] >> So, I'm the SEO engineer in Ahrefs and in terms of my context, um I'm very nerdy. So, I have a Raspberry Pi which I play with. Um going doing a a little bit into like home lab setup. I'm originally from Ghana and due to that I also like soccer. So, I'm really excited about the World Cup which will be um playing today. And I'm also looking forward for Ghana's first match which will be sometime next week against Panama. In term um this bowl of salad just means that I like eating and I like trying other cultures' food because I feel like um generally the type of food you grew up with may not necessarily be the food which um which is the nicest tasting or whatever. So, I generally like to try other cultures' food. And the last bit, I like hiking, I like walking, I like to keep myself busy. And and basically that's all about me. I mean, I do have my daughter in the picture though. And I I also have another son. Um so, we are a family of four inclusive of my wife. So, >> Awesome. Awesome. And this is Tando's very first webinar at Ahrefs. So, really excited cuz he does so much behind the scenes at our agency. Uh really proud of all the work that he does. He's been a core part of this experiment which we'll we'll talk about today. And uh we play this like keyword game every once in a while where it's like can you identify like where in the world a specific like Google Maps photo is and he embarrasses me. He does so well in this game and I am like this dumb American who doesn't know my geography enough. [laughter] Okay, Tando, next up, Kate Dombrowski, Kate, who are you? >> [laughter] >> Hey guys, I'm Kate. I'm a business intelligence analyst at IPullRank. Um, but I have a background in marketing, so I'm very integrated with both data and marketing. The difference between me and these guys is that I'm a a household of one. I don't have any children, I don't have a partner, so all of my personal context is related to just me. Um, some brands I like are Free People. You can always see me wearing a pair of Sambas. Um, I'm very active, so some brands that might show up for me would be like Patagonia, Lululemon. Um, and I [clears throat] wanted to point out that I have lived in four different cities in the past 3 years. Um, and specifically in ChatGPT, I've noticed that it doesn't exactly get my personal context correctly. I'll ask it a question and it'll say, "Oh, since you live in Austin." But I'm currently in New York now. So, I'm not there to remind it of my life updates, but it thinks that it knows what's going on with me. But I I'm just too fast. I can't keep up. >> [laughter] >> I love that. And and it's kind of a preview into some of the the insights and the problems and what we've kind of experienced both from a personalized version of, you know, any of these LLMs as well as specifically Google personal intelligence. So, let's dive into this. Like a little context of the story. So, um, had this idea leading into SEO week, which was back in April. We started the beginning of April and we'll talk about what the experiment was, but for all of us, we know if you're a marketer, if you're an SEO, everything is changing in our industry. The way organic search works, we've all been so familiar with the 10 blue links for decades and decades. Now, like AI isn't new. Machine learning has been like a part of organic search for the past 15, 20, 25, 30 years. But, the last few years have been a bit ridiculous with the integration of large language models into search results. You know, historically, we've been focused on just, you know, keyword-ese, the lexical match, just focusing on two to three keywords to get the results that we're looking for. But, over the last like 10 years, we've had a lot more natural language capabilities with search in the sense that you can have a ask a question and get a better answer. And then, in the last 2 years with the implementation of AI overviews and AI mode, it's becoming completely conversational in nature. And that impacts all of our roles, all of our jobs. But, the layer that we found really interesting and the where all of this is going is personalization. So, we expect that search will continue to profoundly change. But, when it comes to personalization, like that's not completely new. It's always been personal if you think about like a local search. If I'm searching Virginia, um or someone's in California, or someone's across the world in Ghana, and they look for like pizza near me, you don't expect the same results, right? Like, we're all familiar with that isn't a good as search experience. I'd expect something based on proximity, where my device is. That's not new. However, the way that AI search and personalization is starting to evolve is what if you start to take other data points and incorporate it into the outputs? What if we start to think about, you know, context, your search history, things that it really has already started to do implicitly? Now, moving on. Um we're starting to see this, whether you're connected to Google personal intelligence or not. And I'll explain what that is, and how that's different from just your mainstream experience of search right now. But, in in the sense of when you put in a query into AI mode, it's not just Google's not just looking for examples that satisfy that query. It's doing this query fan out. So, it's looking for a bunch of related searches, pulling from actual like ranking articles for all those related searches, and then synthesizing an answer. And that's getting personalized as well. So, you can see in this example that when I look for which streaming services are the most worth paying for right now, in the cited answers in AI mode, it's not just giving me a generic best streaming services. It already knows a little bit about me. It knows that I've searched for family-related searches in the past. And so, you can see in the cited like what's being cited is what are the best services for kids? What are the best, you know, services for families? So, we already know there's a next level of personalization that's happening. Enter Google personal intelligence. So, this has been rolled out over the last few months. Um I'll mention how it how it's really been rolled out since March, but it's been around since January in labs. It is something that you opt into. And what it is, and check out this document, this is one of those like subtle documents. I'll send that out via the deck afterwards. But, Google explains that Google personal intelligence connects to a variety of apps in the Google ecosystem to provide a better and more personalized search experience. It's connected to Gemini, and it's connected to AI mode, and you opt into it. And so, the idea is if all of a sudden Google can connect your search to not only your YouTube history, but your Google Photos, your emails, your calendars, how will that give you different answers than just a generic, you know, almost think of incognito that anybody would receive? And so, you all can try this right now. It is accessible. I use like an old throwaway email from like my Craigslist days 20 years ago, but in essence, what you can do is you go to your Gmail account, you go to um that the settings, you pick the data and privacy, and then you can turn on the personalization and turn on. That's the link that will take you that anyone can turn this on right now, and then you can connect those specific apps. Now, the first time it's asking you for this opt-in, it doesn't do it by default, but that's something you can do right now. And as I mentioned, connects contacts, Google Photos, workspace, uh search services, and YouTube. I anticipate it'll be adding more services in the future. It is coming. It's right now opt-in, but I anticipate like a lot of changes. Robbie Stein mentioned that it's coming. The other big thing that if you guys were paying attention last week is Apple in January actually made an announcement that they were partnering with Google to bring the power of Gemini to um Siri. The big announcement was last week, and you can go to Apple's page where they talk about it. Siri just turned on on my phone. I'm not talking to you right now. So, hopefully you can hear me. Um basically, while this is not explicitly Google personal intelligence, I did want to highlight the fact that a concept like Siri connected to your connected to Gemini is going to connect to all of this data. So, whether we're talking explicitly about Google personal intelligence in this experiment or Apple Siri or OpenAI, all of these different ecosystems are moving towards connecting memory and your personal data to your search experience, which ultimately will be something that marketers have to take into consideration. Now, Liz Reid has made a, you know, been on a bunch of different PR tours and and YouTube videos where she talks about how right now you need deliberate consent to connect to these apps, and that's basically giving Google the the ability to be like super creepy, and you'll see how creepy Google gets with access to all of your data. The reason I put this next to the Apple um slide is that I think Apple is going to be a lot more subtle because we already give permission to Siri. So, once you connect intelligence, it's just like you're in the ecosystem. So, right now it's hard to get to personal intelligence. You have to opt into it. You have to find it and opt into it. I think in the near future it's going to be an opt-out situation, which will change how many people are using it. And I think to some extent the the Siri experience will feel like opt-out. And, like I mentioned, despite personal intelligence, Google still has all your data. Like, let's keep keep it real. Um unless you are like not participating in the digital world, everyone's collecting all your data. I hate to be the bearer of bad news. This is an example of Morty Overseeing showing how it's like checking your personal preferences. And I asked him personally, and he said he was not connected to Google personal intelligence when he did this a few months ago. So, one thing I want you all to think about as we go into what this experiment is, and we're going to go into, you know, what the experiment was, what our hypotheses were, what the methodology is, um what the actual results were, what our insights and analysis that that Kate and Tando found as they went through all this data is the way that Google personal intelligence operates is there two different types of context, right? There is the explicit context, what we say in our queries. You know, I am a 40-year-old man who's looking for shoes that I can run in, but my back hurts, so take all that in consideration. Like this explicit context that I'm giving, or I'm going on a trip to Bali and I'm bringing my family and we're going to be there for 3 days and we have this type of budget versus the implicit context, which is the idea of what data is Google pulling? Your search history, Gmail, all this Google personal intelligence stuff to show you that it has an understanding of context without you having to explain it. So, with that said, let's go into this experiment. The hypothesis was that if Google personal intelligence meaningfully influences AI mode recommendations, then brands seeded into all these different like personal data sources like your email, your photos would actually appear more often than just a standard non-connected search. It would have more share of voice. It'd be more recommended more prominently in positions than that control account. Then we had some other secondary hypotheses as well that, you know, if we put the brands in a Gmail, it would actually like an email, a personal email, it would perform better than just like a photo of a product of the brand. That, you know, if we tested out a real brand versus a completely fabricated brand, we would hope, we would expect that the the real brand would perform better. That different categories matter. So, if we looked in shoes versus coffee machines versus an SEO agency versus a bank, that we would see different levels of influence. That how we phrase the prompt, which is really tricky that all SEOs are trying to figure out is like, how do you adjust the fact that everybody will phrase their queries differently. And web grounding will remain active. How much will it still depend on going to the internet and finding real proof, authority, trust sources as opposed to just what comes up in these um you know, these connected apps. So, I want to turn over this point. I talk a lot. I can't help myself. Um Tando, can you walk us through the methodology of the experiment? >> Yeah, definitely. So, I get to introduce the very first AI slope generated image. But, it's it's not very relevant because all the whole experiment hinges on being able to separate prompt from the account context. So, we use the same prompt across three different account conditions. The first account was a blank slate fresh account, no personal intelligence connection. This give us gives us a baseline for what AI mode might recommend without the connected personal data layer. The second account was also a fresh account, but this time we had connected it to Google personal intelligence. That's the account where we added the experimental signals through Gmail and photos. So, the recommendations changed after seeding and this where we would expect to see a lot of movement. And the third account was Garrett's real personal account. Fortunately, he didn't give us real access to it, but he did provide the data for us. So, that was that was basically meant to be like a comparison point. So, what happens when an account already has years of real Google history, real emails, real behavior, and naturally accumulated brand exposure. And we move to the methodology. So, the methodology is important because AI mode can be volatile, right? A brand can show up more often after a certain date. Even though that's interesting, but that in itself is not enough. The stronger question is did the seeded personal intelligence account change more than the control account over the same period. So, the structure was first we measured both accounts before seeding. Some the same category, same prompt set, and the same kind of collection process. Then we added a treatment only to the personal intelligence account. The control account did not get the seeding. After that, we run the same prompt over and over again and measure the same outcome whether the seeded brands appeared, whether they made it to the top three, top 10, how much share of voice they captured, and how their rank changed after the seeding event. So, basically, because of how we structured the experiment, we are able to pinpoint that is the seeding which caused whatever changes we saw proceeded. Next slide, please. So, what you are looking at is the actual recommendation space we tested. So, these are all the brands we tested. The most important thing is that we did not just test one category, as Garrett mentioned, which we tested like shoes, banks, SEO agencies, coffee machines, smart phones, and productivity tools, etc. And for each of these categories, we had seeded email brands. So, the brands we decided to seed. And we also had photo brands. That is the brands we decided to seed through photo. And the last bit was fake brands we created. So, after our main experiment run out, we also had a secondary experiment where we recommended fake brands which do not exist for each of those categories to see whether AI model pick up on that. >> And one call out here, too, is the fact of the brands that we identified. It was after we ran the initial part of the experiment, we identified the brands that weren't typically in the top 10 results. So, we could see that if all of a sudden we introduced this via an email, would they start to show up? So, you can start to think about what those marketing implications are. If you're not showing up and all of a sudden, you know, someone gets a personal email about your brand, will your audience start to get recommended your brand? >> Yes. Exactly. And over here, you see the exact six different prompts we tested. So, we had um what are the So, for example, in the shoe category, we had like what are the best running shoes right now? What are the running shoe brands people um are safest buy for most people? What are the best running shoes for comfort and durability? All the way to which brand which running shoe brands are the most reliable right now? So, we have different variations. Some very constrained, some very open, just to test different um AI mode outputs. >> Yeah, that structure was the same across all of them. The only thing we really changed was like for the third one where we started to talk about some of the um the attributes of the brand, we made it relevant to whatever that specific like prompt line was. >> Yeah. And throughout the course of the experiment, we collected 1,900 AI mode responses across all the account conditions. And when you break them down, it's around 22,000 brand level rules. That means you are not just looking at whether a response mentioned one brand or not. We are extracting the brand that appeared, where they appeared, and whether they were seated, and what kind of seed they came from, and whether AI mode supported them with citation. So, basically, we have scraped everything AI mode give us. So, later on, we processed it into the structured data, which we can run analysis against. And the reason that matters is that visibility in AI mode is not just binary, right? A brand can appear and but it it can appear low, it can appear in the top three, it can be mentioned with a stronger recommendation language, it can be cited, or it can also not be cited. So, these are different signals which we wanted to measure, and we are able to capture all those signals across the six different um prompt types and the eight um categories. >> And I want to call out to all the work that Tendo did here because, you know, originally, we looked to see if we could just automate the scraping, but because we're like logged into personal accounts, we accounted for all this. Like Tanda, you had a plan, too, about accounting for location. Um what like so that wasn't a factor between you and Kate doing those um the the new accounts, not my personal account. I did that, but you know, that's part of it. >> So, location wasn't a factor. In fact, the AI mode, if there was any location-specific um output, it used where they found the the original creation location for that account. So, because of where you were based, Garrett it it used your location for um whatever um response needed a location. >> Cool. >> So, right here, this is what the email sitting look like. So, Garrett sent an email to the personal intelligence connected accounts, and the emails were intentionally short and recommendations that we were not trying to create a very long marketing campaign or any kind of complicated inbox history. Their goal was to introduce a clear association, a brand, a category, a reason someone might consider the brand. So, in this example, Rachel's connected to coffee machine, and the message gives us a simple preference-oriented reason. It's stripped down, focused, and makes consistently good coffee. And this is the type of languages which we were expecting to see in the AI mode responses. >> Beautiful. And sent all from my um work email, but I want to call out two that I actually did go and open every single email in every other account to make sure for this experiment to see what happens if it's a read email. >> And this is how they appeared in AI mode responses. So, for each um for some of the responses, especially the ones which had this signal, um sometimes the AI would say, "Based on your own recent email and research, or based on that your friend recently recommended it to you. And for most of the time it will cite the specific emails. And the citation can be in different places. Sometimes it can be in line like what you see here, but sometimes it can be in the main citation and footnotes where you would have to click on it to see the full citation. But and if you if if you look if you zoom in a bit, you see that one the first citation is have you heard of Sony? And it's pulling directly from Gmail. And of course they add this annotation that only Garrett can see it. So. >> Yeah. And at first it's really creepy to see your own emails like cited in the AI search. It just makes you hyper aware of the fact that it has access to everything. >> And this is an example of the photos which are showing which are being cited. So I feel like it's interesting because photos doesn't give a lot of context to because it's just a picture. But Garrett did provide context and whether intentionally or intentionally with him squatting to take a picture of a hoodie. So. I thought that was really funny. But anyway. >> Yeah. And I if you if you don't follow me on LinkedIn, I actually posted I didn't mention here, but I was just telling these guys earlier that I posted I did a test earlier to look at like what are desk accessories. It pulls from all sorts of photos from your history that you don't even remember. Like there was no real date relevance to to these photos. Yeah, the photos are spooky. I went with my wife to like take a bunch of pictures in store for this. Um. And yeah, they got pulled this. Anyway. So what happened? Let's let's go dive into what are these insights that we found. So okay, I believe you're are you starting us off on this one or is Tanner? >> I'll still continue though. >> Okay, Tanner, you you you you take over. Let's do it. >> Okay, so this our first major results. So after seeing they see that brands beat their control across the main visibility metrics. I mean, um obviously The most important number is the top bar. So, seeded brands gained 46% points in overall appearance versus the control accounts. That means the effect was not just a tiny movement at the margin. I mean, it would have been much more difficult if it was like a plus 2% or plus 5%. Then in that case, we would have to increase our sample size. But But it's beating it by as much as double digits. You know it's statistically significant. So, in this experiment, the personal intelligent connected accounts became much more likely to include those seeded brand in AI mode recommendation. But the lift was not only um limited to brands which showed up, but brands also became more prominent. So, we saw movement where those brands which were seeded ended up in top 10 and top three placements. So, specifically for top three placements, that increased by 23% points. So, the seeded brands were not just being mentioned elsewhere deep in the answer. They were moving to the part of the recommendation sets that users are more likely to notice. Um share of voice also increased though by a small margin. And general I'm not really a big fan of share of voice in like AI measurement, but it makes sense because share of voice um is more of a competitive metric. So, both the numerator and the denominator are moving. So, sometimes it's very difficult to understand where it's moving towards. >> And I really quickly want to acknowledge too like the ranking aspect is like the more runs, we understand the probability aspect of um you know, the nature of AI mode that you're going to get different answers every time. That just because we're saying top three, it's not saying like, "Oh, you ranked number one." But it stabilizes as you run over time. So, the larger the sample size, you can say confidently, you know, "Oh, the the top three matters." So, when Tando's talking about prominence, right Tando? Like it there there's significance here to that. >> Yeah. Yeah. Just based on the number of data points you collected and the how large the increase is. We know that it was significant. Um and we'll we'll get a clearer picture as we move down to the other slides. So, here you can see the um before and the after. So, what this chart really shows is the time and location of the change. Before seeding, the control accounts and the personalized accounts were in a similar range. So, about 23% for control accounts and 21% for the seeded personal intelligence accounts. But, after seeding, the control accounts stayed basically flat. In fact, it it actually regressed. But, the seeded personalized accounts jumped by 62%. So, this pattern this pattern matters because it's not just a general before and after increase. The increase happened where we applied the treatment in the accounts connected to personal intelligence after we added the Gmail and photo context. So, the next slide actually um shows that the same thing in a time series. So, you can see when exactly we added the photo seeding and when we added the um email seeding. So, you realize that right after that we And because we are measuring this on a daily basis, I'm sure if we were measuring maybe on like an an hour an hour interval, we'd see it like within the same um like hour after adding the photo and email context. >> Isn't that I'm curious like what the audience what everyone thinks about this. Like doesn't it blow your mind? Just let us know in the chat as Tendo continues. I'm curious your perspectives. >> Yeah. So, early on in the test, personalized accounts and control accounts were moving in the same general direction. There was some normal movement day-to-day, which is exactly why we needed the control in the um first place. Then, after we hit the seeding event, photos first then emails were seeded second and opened. I also want to clarify we After they were seeded, we also opened them. Then, after that point, the blue line, which is the seeded first nine intelligence account, separated sharply from the control. It jumped into the 60% range and stayed elevated throughout the rest of the test. Next slide. So, um I'm I'm I'm just going to um talk about the fact that email didn't just surface brands, but it made them more recommendable. Um this where the Gmail versus photo comparison becomes very clear. So, email seeded brand appeared in 53% of the responses compared to with 10% for photo seeded brand. So, this is not also a small difference, right? In this test, Gmail signals was roughly five times more likely to surface the seeded brand. But the more important point is in the title, which I've already said um it's made them more recommendable. That means they appeared in the top 10 and the top three. And the reason this matters is that Gmail is text rich, right? A photo is just a photo. You don't um Gareth was taking a a picture of the brand because he wants to avoid this in future or whether he's he's actually looking for it. So, without all those additional context, um AI wasn't able to know whether Wait, this is a clear recommendation. While the Gmail the other text signals was pointing towards that this should be a brand you should recommend. Um next slide, please. Okay, so um this slide also adds another important layer. So, not only was stronger overall, but it was also portable across all the categories. So, from streaming services all the way down to hoodies. Email seeding created movement in most of the categories we tested. The strongest example were streaming services, running shoes, and coffee machines where email seeded brands appeared at very high rates. Even in some categories that were very hard to move like banks and SEO agencies, email still produced some visibility. Um photos behave very differently. In most categories, photo seeding was very weak or basically flat. They made The only major exception was coffee machine, where photo seeding um brand still appeared at a meaningful rate. Um, I'm surprised I didn't appear um strongly in like hoodies or running shoes specifically for photos, but at least for coffee machine, we did see like a 60% um growth. >> Yeah, and we'll and we'll take some more questions at the end, but Laura had a good one just about, you know, the clarification of like, "Okay, what are the implications for marketers?" Um, if, you know, you are signed up for this, do people start receiving marketing emails? Um, and and that has the brand Will the brand show up in the results? So, for this experiment, this was focused on a personal email. And there are further experiments we want to run, but anecdotally, to Kate's point, we'll definitely address the other types of emails that were cited in in this experiment, which is wild. All right. Now it's Kate's turn. What do you got, Kate? >> So, this was one of my favorite parts about the experiment because my hypothesis was that the fake brands, like Tando had mentioned, I didn't think that they were going to show up at all. I thought Google would be checking online to make sure they're real before just kind of blindly recommending them. But you can see from this image that the fake brands and the real brands showed up right alongside each other in the citations. So, we saw Oh, no. >> Stay on that one. >> Sorry. My bad. >> You're good. Um, the real brands were cited 13% of the time. And we say here that the fake brands were cited 0% of the time, but we just mean that, of course, since it doesn't exist, there's no website for it to be connected to, no product reviews. Um, but the citations that we were seeing were these Gmail context cards. So, if someone were to hover over it, they would see um where that brand is coming from. And it brings up the question of what's being What's more important, being mentioned or being cited? And that would really come down to your audience and their behavior, whether they are going to just read the brand mention and say, "Okay, that sounds like a good one." Or they're actually going to look into why Gmail is suggesting this. Um and I also wanted to point out it says specifically, "Garrett Sussman recently recommended these brands." Now, I did a experiment last year, or a survey I should say, and we found that people do care about citations when they're researching using LLMs, but the number one reason that they trusted brands they say are based on peer recommendations. So, I'm curious if in this context them just seeing a peer recommendation in AI mode, if they would trust that more than if the AI mode's output didn't say Garrett recommended this. And then diving into the data of real brands versus fake brands, the real brands appeared at 55% of the time. So, more often than the fake brands, which only appeared 35% of the time. But the real interesting part to me is that they have this top three rate, meaning like they're in positions one, two, or three in the mention, are very close. They're only about two percentage points or three percentage points away. Um that was interesting to me that it really is just taking from the Gmail and it's not using that web grounding. Um at least that is our assumption. >> Yeah, like definitely anecdotally, and I think you guys experienced this, too. You felt like the recommendations, the personalized recommendations, were prioritized. Like before you start see that generic list, it was like, "Oh, I'm going to let you know a lot of times what you should like what is a more important context recommendation." >> Yeah. And then we looked at the breakdown of those eight different categories that we looked at, and there was a huge difference on the lift between seating versus not. So, these top four had a much larger lift um compared to the bottom four. And if you look at it, coffee machines, hoodies, these are categories where it really does take your unique opinion on what kinds of things you like, you know, um the types of features of a hoodie is very personal, or that you might like a K-cup versus uh um espresso shot versus banks, streaming services, that's more about the actual brands, like product features, the specs, um a little bit more technical details. Something that I noticed, too, if you think about the top four, those are things that affect you as an individual person. You know, I'm not sharing my smartphone with my family, but I might be sharing the same bank with my family, or the SEO agency I use is going to be applying to my whole business. Um so, I wonder if Google is actually taking that into consideration, like "Hey, we're not going to rec we're not going to push out these recommendations for these more technical categories, but it feels more comfortable pushing out a coffee machine." Um and again, we don't know the actual algorithm going on behind it, but based on the data, it kind of seems like it's picked up on that. >> Yeah, it's it's And and this is like it one extension, we'll talk to more experiments that y'all should do, but like everything needs to be considered in context. There's no best practices anymore. Industries are specific, businesses are specific, individuals are specific. So, um the best thing you can do is test a lot of this stuff for yourself. >> Yeah. And this next part was really interesting. So, we wanted to look at Garrett's personal intelligence account history versus um the one that we created for the experiment. So, Garrett has years and years of data that Google can pull from versus, you know, the one that we set up only has the seeded emails. Um and you can see these top five brands like Aviator Nation. It's funny. I don't think I have seen a photo of Garrett without wearing an Aviator Nation jacket, and I'm surprised that he's not right now. Um he might be, but it you can it proves that personal history is working because these are not brands that would show up for me. You know, I go next. I do care about the NBA right now, but you know, I don't actually care about that. This wouldn't be showing up for me. And we can prove that it's having an effect on his history because it didn't show up in the control accounts. Um >> Yeah, and to to that point, it was almost annoying anecdotally like as we were going through this cuz we ran these experiments at like these ran these prompts every single day for the 3 weeks, and like it would always recommend Aviator Nation for me. I'm like, "What if I don't want, you know, the same brand that I already have? Like what if I want something else?" So, it relies heavily. >> But to the other end of that coin, we looked at um these six brands on the x-axis are the brands that we seeded in the emails. Um and we looked at the difference between Garrett's account and our test account. And it worked substantially better on the test account. So, that's of course because there's no noise in that test account. We recommend the one brand, Google can only recommend the one brand that has context for it versus Garrett's account has to compete for all of the brands in his history. Um and the marketing impact of this would be if you were going to use Gmail and photos as like a lever for your customers, it's going to work better on the customers that are new to the category and don't have um other competing brands that are already associated with them. Versus if someone has been in this category for a long time, it's not going to have as big of an impact on them. >> It's a It's a great call. Like new car or like buying, you know, doing an LLM for the first time or anything like that is is going to be a different impact influence. >> Yeah. >> All right, send it. >> Yeah, so this is this way framing becomes a big deal. So, the same category can behave very differently depending on how the user asks the question. A broad prompt like what are the best coffee machines right now is not the same as a constrained prompt like if you had to recommend three streaming services. That second version forces AI mode to make a tight choice. And in this experiment, that seemed to create more room for personal context to influence the answer. And the negative coffee machine example at the bottom is also very useful. It reminds us that the personalization lift is not automatic. The system may lean into personal context for some prompt and some um and lean back towards broader categories and consensus for some other prompts. As um Kate mentioned, depending on the category, right, too, there can be also some variations. Next slide, please. So, as earlier on in the presentation, you mentioned that we have six different types of prompts. So, very broad to very um safe or controlled prompts where you're asking or something which is reliable um the safest choice. And we see the outputs from AI model also mirror some of these um guards we had placed in the prompt. So, the stronger strongest class was recommendatory. That matters because it forces AI to make a very short opinionated list when the system has a narrow and set of answers to pull from. Less now context appear to be more useful within those prompts where um the AI model is just supposed to return a very short list. Um use case prompts also came in second. That makes sense because they give AI model a specific decision context. The more specific the decision, the easier it may be for personal context signals to connect a seeded brand to the user's need. Um the interesting part, as I mentioned, is like these um bottom two prompts where those prompts um produced less lift compared to like the um unseeded brand. And that's because here you're asking for safe and reliability and something which is dependable. And that forces the AI to reason beyond your context, but looks at the core category consensus. And that's why come those had much lower lift. Next slide, please. So, at the end of the day, the reality check in the experiment is that um though um seeding did bring did um introduce lift for those brands, it did not make public web irrelevant. So, even when the recommendations were personalized, AI model still grounded many of those brand mentions in web sources. So, the biggest source category here was um other brand sites, right? Then um which accounted for about 49%. Then brand-owned sites accounted for another 24% of citation. Then Google Shopping contributed to 14%. So, the Google Shopping is for like the e-commerce heavy categories, like the running shoes, their hoodies, etc. And um it's the same shopping URL you see when you do a normal Google search for these type of categories. And I believe Google pulls that information specifically from their schema. So, if you've properly set up an e-commerce website, you will have a product schema, which is pulled into Google Merchant. So, that's where Google gets that information. So, it's it's a shopping URL. It It doesn't necessarily link to your website, but when you click on it, it opens this another modal, which can shows the different websites where you can get that specific product from. >> Yeah, and to and to that point also the merchant feed. I mean, that's why you really have to work with your ad team to make sure that you have all the attributes in there that's being fed that's not pulled from the website as well to give yourself as many opportunities to show up for any of these like very specific long-tail conversational searches that someone might like reference um and give yourself a better chance to show up. >> Okay. And uh that I just want to make one more com- com- comment. So, um the reason why that previous slide matters is that AI visibility is becoming multi-layered. So, you it's not just about sho- showing up in the user's context, but you also need to be legible and credible in the public web. And um seeding made citation more likely. So, this also a follow-up to the previous slide where AI mode made um became less likely to mention these brands without a citation. So, for email seeded brands, the no citation rates dropped from 21% before seeding to 3.4% after seeding. For photo seeded brands, it dropped from 17% to 6.6%. So, that means that for seeding behavior was not simply AI mode citing that the seeded brands because they are were in the personal context. More often than not, they appeared to connect those brand mentions to other external sources which were already on the web. So, this also matters again because not only do you need to show show up in the user's inbox, but you also have to be on the web. >> Cool. Okay, so so there's some a lot of interesting database insights and I just want to again give a shout out to K&N Tendo for doing a lot of this analysis and heavy lifting because there and there's a lot more that we can do cuz um we captured a lot of the results or all the results. We scraped the data for all of these different prompts over the the 3 weeks. So, there's a lot more analysis we can do, but I want to share with you some of the anecdotal experiences that we had that blows your minds and answer some of the questions that came up in the chat as we're going through this process. So, first off, early on, this is what I was mentioning of like when I asked for if you had to recommend three hoodie brands, which would you pick, it over indexed a lot of times on my own receipts, my own personal experiences. And before we even started seeding the email specifically for these types of prompts, I would see transactional email citations like crazy. Like it would say, "Oh, Garrett, you bought three Aviator Nation hoodies, so you must like Aviator Nation. That's what I'm going to recommend to you." So, that's like a really another really weird thing is transactionally you would see those emails show up um to kind of like make you aware of the fact that that Google is following everything. To the point um that someone was asking earlier about, you know, whether or not you can just send a marketing email and it shows up, we would see product marketing emails come up. So, in this example, you're seeing like a Disney Plus subscriber agreement that was referenced as a citation when it was recommending specific streaming networks for me. So, is that the best use case to ultimately show that um to include that? Probably not, but it's trying to show that, oh, you know, you gave us access to your emails, so we're going to cite that when it is relevant to whatever your search is. You also see like an NBA League Pass subscription. That's one of the examples of the receipts. Now, this is where it starts to get wild. Earlier I I announced or I shared the fact that we opened up all the emails in the experiment. Well, there were examples independent of our seeded emails like this one, which was a newsletter that I got back in January for the productivity prompts asking like what is the best productivity app and Marco actually referenced like three different apps in the middle of his newsletter. And so, when I checked that citation, it was an unopened email. Like that I did not even read that email and yet it was pulled into AI mode. So, this isn't even the fact that they're like showing you content that you've already seen. This is what's actually just landed in my inbox. And then to Mark's point, it didn't happen very often, but there was definitely a couple of spam emails that were cited. This is like a weird, you know, butchered subject line Costco rewards broken image link email that was cited in one of the AI outputs. And this is probably one of the most wild experiences. So, I get the, you know, USPS daily digest of what's getting sent to my mailbox. One day I received a postcard talking about this 3D image rendering service offered at a local shoe store. So, when I actually asked about buying running shoes, it referenced this email saying, "Hey, did you know the PR Run & Walk has a service to get you to test out whether or not your foot um this size and what's the best shoe um and then I checked it and that was actually in it. So, all of a sudden direct mail can influence your AI search results. Um so, just that just blows my mind. And then the other thing to take into consideration is how creepy it gets. So, because I've searched for and referenced my daughter's name and my wife's name, when when I asked for just a three streaming services, you can see here it tells them by their name and that's like so messed up. So, like my daughter's name is Sammy. It's like for Sammy, Disney Plus is widely recognized or for you and Jenny, my wife, Hulu provides next-day access, blah blah blah, you know, recommends The Last of Us and House of the Dragon, but uh honestly neither of us would watch that cuz she well, I would watch The Last of Us. She's not a big horror fan. Anyway, uh and to to answer your question earlier, this is still and I think Tendo answered in the chat, this is still only opt-in. This isn't just rolled out to everybody um but in the foreseeable future. So, a little more that we're going to dive into. I'm going to hand it over or I'm going to talk about um you know, some of the implications here. This is me, right guys? Yeah. Uh so, just thinking about what that means next. As marketers, as SEOs, you really need to get in touch with everybody that's part of your marketing department, whether it's life cycle, email marketers, social cuz I do anticipate even though I didn't see anything social related in Google personal intelligence, I would not be surprised if we eventually saw, you know, something connected to, you know, whatever your personal social is, but not yet. That's not something you have to worry about yet, but you have to connect with everyone and consider everything from calendars to contacts to receipts to photos to Gmails is all taken into consideration for people who have it turned on and then will do the output. So, you think about the implications there. And then email, obviously it's wild to think about. I hope we don't all start spamming emails, but just start to think about like if you have an influencer program and they're sending out personal emails recommending your brand and people have Google personal intelligence turned on, I would not be shocked if those are if those are included in the AI output. So, now you can start thinking about your email marketing, you can start thinking about your partnerships, the newsletters, um all the sort of digital PR that you would do can go into your inbox and influence search results. And then your brand authority does still matter. Like it would show the fake brands, um but it was always contextualized. I think there's still going to be that factor like the third-party validation, the reviews, all these different parts that are connected to the ecosystem should be a part of your SEO and your marketing strategy. So, in terms of what what the limitations were, >> Yeah. Like any good experiment, we had some limitations. Um we can couldn't do it all in one go. Um first talking about the opt-in, we've said this before. That makes it on a smaller subset of people. When was this rolled out? Just a few months ago. Um so, we would expect the amount of people that have opted in a year from now would probably grow. Or if they change it to opt out, that gets a little dicey. Um and the majority of people might not know to opt out. Um given it was only a 16-day test window, the results of this experiment would change if we repeated even the exact same thing a year from now, uh let alone added some additional factors to it. And everything that we've showed you today are are the outputs of our experiment. Um like I had talked about with the fake brands, I'm assuming that because it's mentioning the fake brands that it's not pulling from the web to verify, but we don't know the actual algorithm behind the scenes. So, we're just saying our observed thoughts. And that every category is different. And just because we see a heavy amount of influence, we can't prove that you can actually manipulate it, nor do we recommend um that as a best marketing practice. We don't want you to go spamming your customers um inboxes or doing anything shady. >> And hopefully over time like Google will get better at that, too. Like they'll they'll get better at any sort of techniques that they find in manipulation. I'm sorry, what were you going to say? >> No, no. You can go on. Um and going on to that is just my personal anecdote. I really appreciate personalization from a marketing standpoint. You know, I want a personalized experience for customers and from a customer standpoint, I want things to be personalized for me. But even being a data person, I would not be turning this on for myself. Um and it got me curious what Google knows about me. So, I took a look in my app and it only mentioned two brands. Interestingly enough, competitors Sephora and Ulta um as brands that I'm loyal to when you know, I have a bunch of others in my inbox and just right now, we know that it's still getting things wrong and as much as it's trying to go based off of the data, there's some nuance to that. But there are things that we can test beyond um >> [clears throat] >> our limitations. You can move to the next slide. >> One call out two, there's a lot of questions about ads. I don't want to speak to that cuz I don't know all the answers, but there's a lot of good thoughts about what the implications are with ads. I don't know if you can do targeting. >> Um there's so many things that we want to do with this experiment. We're not done here, so keep updated with what we do. Um >> [clears throat] >> testing it on more than three accounts, different accounts like business accounts. Um I'd be really interested to see the difference between business and personal, um more category verticals other than the eight that we tested. We also you know that we just looked at email and photos, but there's a bunch of other apps like YouTube and calendar um that we can integrate into our testing. And like we saw with Garrett's anecdote of the opened versus unopened, there's a bunch of behavioral changes, some ethnographic factors that we can put into there. And then like I've said before, the the time factor of it all really changes because we know that algorithms are constantly updating, um people's behavior in reaction to LLMs are constantly changing. Um so it'd be very interesting to see how it goes over time. But I what I really like about the possibility of this experiment is you know in marketing we take all of the customers and we bring them into groups and we we label them things like that. Busy mom or the IT director. Um and this level of personalization lets us go even deeper than just those groups, and really get more individualized. So it's very exciting. >> And and like just one thing you can do today. Thank you both. Like this is this is such an interesting study. I just I've been geeking out with these folks for the last like couple months over it, but at the the least, go and set up like a new Gmail account. You know, it doesn't have to be your own personal one, but like go set up a free Gmail account, and they rolled it out to like publicly. Initially, they they were actually like you have to you can only have access to this on like ultra or pro or whatever the the tiers are, but go and connect it to to personal intelligence and run some experiments yourself. You know, like send yourself some emails, add some photos, sign up for some newsletters, uh start doing searches, and start to see where it's cited. I mean, one of the tricky things with Google personal intelligence is while it does currently cite Gmail and photos, it doesn't cite your past history. We didn't do anything with like your YouTube searches. Um I don't think it cites anything related to YouTube. Um but it takes into consideration the videos that you watch. So, we've been I for like we're actually on time. Any any last final thoughts um Kate or Kando about this experiment? >> Yeah, so one last thing um to get back on what you said that you should go and create your own personal Gmail account to test. Yeah, I believe it's a great idea. You should go out experiment, see the upper limit or the boundaries of being able to spam yourself to see whether it does show up in um AI mode, and see whether um the lag like how fast does Google actually deliver recommendations after you um send a recommendation context through Gmail. So, just testing those boundaries would give you yourself um enough data points to see how you can utilize this in your marketing strategy. You In fact, also sending emails from whether a corporate account versus like another random Gmail account to see whether which version creates a higher lift compared to the other. >> Please let us know about your experiments, and even though I didn't include it here, I'll include it in the deck, but um we So, the full data can be um accessed here. We ran all We wrote a whole blog post on all of the analysis. Um and if you have any questions about AI search manual in general, uh we have a 24-chapter guide that's epic that goes through um all the basics, but all the super technical uh considerations when it comes to across AI mode, AI overviews, ChatGPT, strategy, uh you know, how it's built, the architecture, different verticals of like e-com and local. So, if you want a resource, check that out. That's at the AI search manual. Um we've been doing this at iPullRank. I know we're at a time. We have seen success with a lot of the different strategies. There is overlap for sure between SEO fundamentals and AI search, but there are a ton of nuances. And one of the things that really differentiates us is that we run experiments with our clients to see what is working cuz everything is changing so quickly. What What works today and what is effective today may not have worked a year ago or 2 years ago and may change tomorrow. So, it very much is a moving target. So, it's so important to have the right people who can set up the right experiments and test the right things in a responsible and mature way for your business. This isn't, you know, as Kate says, not about manipulation. This is about moving with a changing technology and changing consumer behaviors um with the right strategy that's kind of future-proofs your business as best as possible. Uh So, I'm Garrett, Kate, Tando. Thank you. How good were they? Can I get some shout-outs in the room? This is their first webinar and they are phenomenal parts of our team here at iPullRank. And thank you to all of you. I know we really didn't get to Q&A uh with all this, but here are our LinkedIns. Please don't hesitate to reach out to any of us personally if you have any questions or want to take this um even further. For Personally, I I'm very curious to see what happens with Siri going forward. I'm curious to see what happens with what gets rolled out more and more publicly versus the opt-in. Uh it should be really exciting. So, thanks for having us. I pull rank. Keep your eyes peeled in your own inbox. If you have Google personal intelligence on, you'll be like, "Hey, what experiments should I run for AI mode personalization?" Then you'll see like the email that I'm about to send you pop up as a a recommendation. See, we're coming We're coming full circle. Thank you all for joining us. You guys have a great one. >> Thank you.