# Mike King

URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=578yMDdaGEA
Uploaded:Apr 23, 2026
Title:SEO Value Happens After the Click - Brie Anderson - Inside SEO Week

---

All right, inside SEO week. I can't believe that it's almost here and we got we got a vet. We got we we got an SEO week vet. We got a lot of new folks, but we had to bring back Bree. Bree Anderson is the owner of Beast Analytics. She is so right before this it was so critical cuz we're talking about the major issue that so many SEOs and AI search marketers are having is like, how do you track this stuff? Like how do you what are the analytics of AI search? And and while that's not necessarily like Bree's specific focus, you can't help but be immersed in in that need to to provide some sort of attribution. So, Bree, thanks for joining me today. How how are you doing? What's going on in your world? Super stoked to be here always. Um and I Yeah, I cannot believe like it's almost the middle of April and SEO week is just around the corner. I should really probably like book my ticket and stuff. Is that a good idea? Um no, but been super busy. Lots changing in the industry always. Um but it's all fun stuff. I love I love figuring it all out, so. Okay, so before we even dive into like your perspective on AI search, take me back to last year. You were at SEO week. It was our first year. You've done a bunch of SEO conferences. What was like one of your favorite favorite memories of that experience? What was it like for you being there? Oh my gosh. Honestly, like truly speaking, I was blown away by the content. I mean, Mike Mike said, I'm bringing the best of the best. These These people are we're going to be doing this is tactics. This is strategy. This is hard like hardcore stuff. We're not doing theory, we're doing get done. And it was just that. It It was incredible. I haven't been to a conference like that in a long time, I'll say. I So, to me, that was that was a cool thing. And then just the caliber of the audience as well. I mean, you're sitting there next to the people that do SEO for Bose and the people that do SEO for L'Oreal. I mean, the the caliber of the audience is well. I mean, you were just surrounded by smart people. So, that was pretty cool. Dude, I love it cuz you leaned in. I mean, you I was like reaching out to you for your your motion graphics background and you're like, "I need I need a a concert rockstar crowd." And then like you delivered on stage. A lot has changed since last year. How are you thinking about kind of like AI search right now in the context of like analytics? Like, what's top of mind for you? I got to tell you, I am and this will be in my talk cuz it's like kind of like the intro of the talk is what I'm most interested in right now is how do we get people to talk about after the click? Showing up in a site like being cited is great in an LLM, but what happens after they click? What's happening on your site? How do we use that information to inform our strategies moving forward? Um those are kind of the things that I'm thinking about just just from like a working with data standpoint. And then the other side of that coin is like, how do we actually know when traffic is coming from those places cuz a lot of it does get, you know, thrown into direct or hidden a little bit. Um so, how do we uncover some of that that traffic as well? Um but but really for me so far, it's been what are we doing to inform the strategies because that's that's what people are um focused on. And then also, is it worth having a strategy for right now? Everyone's leaning in cuz it's new, but like is it right for everyone? I I don't know. Do Do you have Do you have an opinion? What Where do you think this goes over the next like 6 months with SEO and AI? Like where do you think we're we're Like where are we going with this? I think it as with any marketing, I think we've seen this happen a lot like it it evolves, right? Like how people interact with media involves or evolves and I think that's what we're seeing with search engines right now like how people interact with search engines. But this this has been true for the last decade. We've been watching it happen slowly but surely with knowledge panels and people also ask and you know, like they took over more and more of the serp and now it's like well, what what does this mean for our job? The reality of it is though, you know, so many of our skills are useful outside of just like the goal should have never been, let's optimize for these bots, these robots. The The goal should have always been, let's optimize for our customers so that they're finding us at the right time and we're giving them the information that they need in a way that makes the most sense so that when they're ready to take the next step, they know that they can trust us as a source or they know that they can trust us as a provider or whatever. So I think what what's going to happen is, you know, last year I felt like we had an identity crisis a little bit in the room. This year I feel like you know, over the next 6 months, we're going to see people stepping into it. I think the biggest shift is going to be to stop thinking of SEO and Geo or whatever you want to call it as different things and realizing that this whole time we were optimizing with search engines in mind, but it wasn't for search engines specifically if that makes sense. That all of this comes together in a in a bigger picture Uh uh of of optimizing for users. Do you think that changes how you think about analytics and analysis of these different channels or do you think that in a way it becomes simplified by being more complex? I don't Yeah. Uh I Yeah. Yeah, it is kind of both of like when you look at it are we getting Um I don't know. I think it's what I've been focusing on with people too because, you know, it's like are are we going to invest in traditional SEO? Are we going to invest in in this? Do we need to find a new team? Whatever I I think those conversations are a bit I still think it's a bit early to be leaning into those conversations as heavy heavily as we are um especially when like you know, we're looking at people making big swings and it's like realistically LLMs make up for I mean I think the biggest um like chunk of traffic I've seen for a client is like maybe 12% of their traffic. Like, you know, it's not um not things to like scoff at but it's like is it is this where we we need to be putting all of our efforts? Anyways, all that to say um I've been actually thinking about like how do you prove your the value of your work in general outside of this silo that you've been put in? Right? How do you prove the value of your work? So, like if you I mean because also now we have tools that we never had. If you vibe coded a calculator and and put it on the site, how do we prove that that actually brought value to your to your boss, right? Or if you got investment to uh redesign the website or or whatever that is, how do we track the design changes made to show that this investment brought in X, right? Like in theory again, these were all things that we should have been thinking about all along, but hindsight's 2020. Um, but I think getting people what I'm what I'm trying to do more and more is getting people to think about all of their individual contributions and how they can track those things and tie them back to the value. Because it's going to be harder, I mean, we talked about this briefly before the we started recording. It's going to be harder to attribute to specific channels. It can be done where you know, more and more people are going to server-side tracking and we're preserving things in different way, but you know, more and more legislation comes up and blockers are getting more sophisticated and all of that. So we can't rely 100% on like, oh, well, I've been working on this channel and this channel has brought this in. It's well, I've been working on this channel and because I'm focused on that channel, I fixed the internal linking. And now I can show you that people are more likely to visit more pages when they come and come to our site because they're clicking on these internal links and so they've gotten deeper into our funnel, you know, having more of those conversations of okay, your um, thought of silo out of the way, what what are we working on and what's going to be our impact? It's it's such an interesting challenge. Like data analytics, I feel like there's so much that you can do cuz the other thing that I think to with all of this and like whole, you know, get internet theories like you also have to deal with the the idea of tracking bots. Like how are you differentiating? And that's not even just an LLM problem. That's like an internet issue. Um, I'm sure you're working with clients on on how you actually prove that these are real people that are going through these these funnels. Yeah, I mean, the so there are some like safeguards. So I work primarily in the Google suite. So I'm I'm working with tag manager GA4 and Looker Studio, right? So GA4 had some built-in bot detection and and filtering, which worked until it didn't. Um what we're seeing right now, I mean, and this has been happening since October and there still hasn't been a fix and I don't know what they're going to do cuz we're half a year later, but we're seeing influx of um traffic from Singapore and China and you know, it the thing about this they're bots um and a lot of times what it is is it's they're not actually like retrieval bot like agentic search bots, right? Like it's it's not like that. It's actually people um scraping sites to inform LLMs, right? That they're building or or what have you. Um I mean, at least that's that's the theory that that's kind of going around, but what you can do is you can see that like the session source medium is set is not set and then the the time on site's very low. But then it's like but then you have to remember every time you interact with your data to filter out that data, otherwise it's skewed, right? Like all of your metrics have become skewed now. Um and so really being diligent, I think that's kind of one of the big things over the last 6 months uh 6 to 12 months really that that I've noticed is we're having to become even more diligent with our data um to to keep it clean because the the bots are even more sophisticated now, you know, it you can block them, you know, some people if you have Cloudflare like you can block them at the DNS level. The uh you know, block specific countries and it's like, well, one, that's not a great idea, but even two, the they're not static. It's dynamic. They'll just change where it's coming from. Uh Um So, yeah. I mean, it's it's been tough. Um but all that to say, Google does have some built-in like, you know, you have like the engaged uh engaged session. So, 10 10 seconds or more, two or more page views as a key event. Um you know, the and like time on site, you know, some of the some of the quote normal things that you would look at. Um making sure people are coming from the the areas that you service, those kinds of things. Um but it is it's new. It's it's interesting, for sure. I mean, it matters, too. I can only imagine what was going through your head when you found when we found out recently when this is recorded that like Google's impression data was inflated for over a year, like since May of 2025. How do you do that with a logging error? Like >> Yeah. Who do you trust, Bree? Uh Well, no one. Trust no one. Yeah. Um My first thought was, well, everybody's like their rates are higher then. So, like, congrats. Everyone just had an increase in their click-through rate. So, good job, everybody. >> Um but to I mean, it it goes back Dana DiTomaso is great about talking about this. Like, all of the data that we're working with is directional data. There is no one perfect source of truth because also every tool you use measures things differently. It doesn't matter if they're measuring the exact same things. Like, if they're both measuring sessions, for instance, they're both going to use their own definition of what a session is. Um and so, all there is no one source of truth. Nothing is perfect. I mean, if you want to dig in your log files all the time and do that. But even then, it's like how do you know what's what and who's who? We're not always going to know know. So, but we have to you can't get stuck on that, right? That you're not going to move forward being stuck in analysis paralysis. Um you we got to find the the best direction and and then test. I mean, that we've been I've been saying that for the last 5 years. You got to always be testing. And if you test something and it's you know, it works, great. Iterate. See if you can replicate. Um and if it doesn't work, then you know, make a change. You know. That's why I love you and also why why your session like I'm so excited for your sessions cuz like data literacy has never been more important either in the context of analytics like to make sure what you're doing. Um give us like a teensy little taste without giving too much about what your talk is going to be at SEO week and why they should come. Well, the good news is I can't give too much away because I'm stuck on the ending. I'm not quite sure how I'm going to wrap it up. So, boom. Um No, so a a lot of talks about like how do we set ourselves up for success when it comes to measurement and what we're selling clients at the end of the day. Um it or our bosses, right? And what metrics we're tied to and how we can um measure those things accurately. So, it'll be a lot. Buckle up. I can't wait. Okay, well, besides that, but to land this plane if you will, what are you most excited about for SEO week this Always the people. It's always the people. I'm I'm excited to see everyone. I'm excited to be in the room. Uh and you know, just be around the energy. I'm also excited to see how that shift is taking place. Last year, like I said, it really was like identity crisis feeling. Um I'm lucky like I'm like a step removed from SEO, right? Like so you know, I was able to sit back and be like, "Ooh." At least I know I just work on Ron Jeremy like It's cool. I I data is data at the end of the day. I can I can figure it out. Your job's just got so much harder. So, and I felt like you know, you there really was this like tension, not like bad, but there there was this tension of like where are we going to go? What what comes next? And so, I'm excited to see this year kind of how that energy has shifted now that we've had some time to like take everything in and had a year of you know, a lot of these people doing it for clients and and measuring the impact. So, I'm excited. I can't wait, dude. It's going to be awesome. So, if you haven't already gotten tickets, we're getting towards the end here. Day three, Bree is going to be rocking it. It is the 27th to the 30th, end of April in New York City. Get your tickets for SEO week. Thank you so much for joining me. This has been This has been awesome. Sweet. Garrett Sussman, signing out. SEO week, see you then.